In this lecture, let's look at the various translation functions available in WordPress.
Translations play a significant role in the WordPress development community.
Out of the box.
WordPress has dozens of functions for translating your text.
Let's talk about how WordPress achieves translation for plugins and themes.
Under the hood, WordPress is using a system called Get Text.
This system was developed for translating programs.
We can use this system with various programming languages.
PHP supports get text natively.
Normally we must configure this system with our PHP applications.
Luckily, by using WordPress, this system is configured for us.
This saves us time by focusing on the translations of our plugin or theme.
With that being said, let's explore the various functions available in WordPress.
Most of these functions have similar parameters.
Let's start with the most common translation function.
The first function is called double underscore.
This function has two arguments which are the translatable message and the text domain.
The text domain represents the unique ID of our translations.
WordPress sites can have dozens of plugins installed.
A text domain will point WordPress to our translations instead of the translations from another plugin.
If a translation cannot be found, WordPress will return the original value in the first argument of
the function.
This behavior applies to all translation functions.
The user will never see an empty space.
The next function is called Underscore E.
It's similar to the double underscore function, except it'll echo the value.
You can think of it as a shorthand solution for echoing the return value of the double underscore function.
Afterward, we have a function called underscore RN.
Undoubtedly, you may need to output a translation for words with a singular or plural form.
For example, let's say you want to translate the word comment.
If you have multiple comments, you may want to add the letter s at the end of the word.
If you have a single comment, the letter S can be omitted.
The underscore end function was designed for handling plural words.
This function can accept two translations.
The singular form of a translation must be passed in as the first argument.
The second argument is the plural form.
Afterward, we must provide a number.
The number will determine which translation will be returned by the function.
If the number is two or more.
The plural form will be returned.
Otherwise, the singular form is returned.
Lastly, the fourth argument is the text domain.
We never needed this function.
However, it may be useful to know for future projects.
Up next, we have a function called Underscore X.
This function was introduced for words spelled the same but have different meanings.
This is known as a homonym.
For example, let's say we have the word base in our translations.
This word can have two different definitions.
It can refer to the instrument or the fish.
In other languages, these words may not be spelled the same.
The second argument of this function is a note or context.
We can provide additional information on the translatable text to translators.
By doing so, they can accurately translate our message.
There's another variation of this function called Underscore X.
Unlike the underscore x function, this function will echo the value.
Other than that, the functionality is the same.
Lastly, we have a function called underscore and X.
This function combines the logic of the underscore x and underscore end functions.
It can translate the text with singular and plural forms while adding a note for context.
WordPress provides another set of functions for translating strings.
These functions are prefixed with escape HTML or escape attribute.
As their names imply, these functions will escape the translations.
It's possible that a translation may be compromised to avoid the worst case scenario.
You may want to consider using a translation function security counterpart.
So far we've looked at WordPress PHP function for translating text.
Some of these functions exist as JavaScript functions from the WordPress slash IE 18 end package.
There are four functions available.
There are the double underscore, underscore ex, underscore NW and underscore nw x functions.
These functions will return the.
Translation, none of them will output a translation onto the page.
Overall, WordPress has us covered with translating text.
In most cases, you can get away with two or three functions.
However, feel free to modify our plugin or theme with these functions.
At the end of the day, it's up to you.
In the next lecture, let's update our plugin by adding a translation templates.